
Contributor(s): Thibault Gajdos, Stephen M. Fleming, Marta Saez Garcia,
Gabriel Weindel, Karen Davranche

E-mail: thibault.gajdos@univ-amu.fr

Citation: Gajdos, T., Fleming, S. M., Saez Garcia, M., Weindel, G., &
Davranche, K. (2019). Revealing subthreshold motor contributions to
perceptual confidence. Neuroscience of consciousness, 2019(1), niz001.

Stimulus: Stimuli were generated using the Psychopy library for Python
(Peirce, 2009). Each trial started with a fixation cross, displayed for
300 ms. It was followed by a low-contrast grating randomly oriented
either horizontally or vertically, and presented centrally for 33 ms (4°
diameter).  Responses faster than 1500 ms were confirmed by a message
reporting the provided answer (horizontal or vertical) displayed for 500
ms. Responses longer than 1500 ms were omitted from analysis and
feedback was provided to the subject signalling that her answer was too
slow.

Confidence scale: subjects were asked to loudly rate their confidence
from 1 (low confidence) to 4 (high confidence) while a scale ranging
from 1 to 4 was displayed on the screen for 2500 ms. If they consciously
detected making a mistake they were asked to say "error" instead of
their confidence level.  Responses were recorded and written down by the
experimenter, who was outside the room where the participants sat. There
is therefore no RT for confidence.

Manipulations: No manipulation

Block size: 9 blocks of 70 trials each and one block of 69

Feedback: no feedback on accuracy, but responses faster than 1500 ms
were confirmed by a message reporting the provided answer (horizontal or
vertical) displayed for 500 ms, and responses slower than 1500 ms were
followed by a message signaling that the answer was too slow

NaN fields: RT for confidence is not available, because it was given
orally, and written down by the experimenter

Stimulus and Response encoding: 1 : left, 2 : right

Additional fields: nbrA: number of muscular actications CA: number of
muscular activations congruent to the response IA: number of muscular
activations incongruent to the response prmt: pre-motor time (between
stimulus display and the beginning of the motor response) mt: motor time
(between the beginning and the end of the motor response) Apmt: absolute
pre-motor time (onset time of the first muscular activation) EMGtrial:
list of muscular activity in the form of "X1 X2 …" where X is either I
(incongruent) of C (congruent)

Subject population: Age: 18 - 32 (mean = 22.5, sd = 3.45), Gender:
Female: 12, Male: 10

Response device: Response buttons were be fixed on the top of two
plastic cylinders (diameter 3 cm, height 7.5 cm), 20 cm
apart. Participants responded by exerting at least 600 mg of pressure on
a button.

Experiment setting: dark and sound-shielded Faraday cage. They were
seated 100 cm in front of a 15-inch CRT monitor with a refresh rate of
60 Hz.

Training: a staircase was run before the experiment

Experiment goal: motor contribution (specifically, subtreshold motor
activity) to confidence

Main result: subjects report higher confidence levels for trials with
ipsilateral or contralateral partial activations. By contrast, there is
a negative relation between ipsilateral (but not contralateral)
activations and accuracy, together with a positive interaction with
response time.

Location of data collection: LPC and LNC, Aix-Marseille Université,
France