Contributor(s): Borys³aw Paulewicz, bpaulewicz@swps.edu.pl, Micha³ Wierzchoñ, mwierzchon@gmail.com, Marta Siedlecka, siedlecka.marta@gmail.com

Citation: unpublished

Stimulus: The Gabor patches and the mask were presented on a light
grey background. on LCD monitors (1280 x 800 resolution. 60-Hz refresh
rate). Presentation times of the stimuli were synchronized with the
vertical refresh rate of the screen. The size of the stimuli was 3.34
degrees of visual angle. Gabors were oriented at 45 degrees left or
right and their parameters were constant (contrast = 30%. frequency =
20 cpd. sigma of the Gaussian envelope = 30 pixels). The mask
consisted of six grey coaxial circles.

Confidence scale: The PAS scale was presented with the question: 'How
clear your experience of stimulus was?' and the options were: ‘no
experience’, ‘a vague experience’, ‘an almost clear experience’, and
‘clear experience’. Participants were asked to indicate their response
with a mouse click.

Manipulations: Each trial began with a fixation cross presented at the
centre of the screen for 1000ms and followed by the randomly oriented
target stimulus. The target remained on the screen for a duration
(Difficulty variable) randomly chosen amongst 32ms, 48ms, 80ms and
160ms and was immediately followed by the mask. Mask remained on the
screen until participant responded to the following task, which was
either orientation discrimination or awareness rating. The subjective
scale appeared either before (Order = SD) or after their decision
(Order = DS). The order of tasks and the type of scale was manipulated
between groups, giving two conditions (DS, SD).

Block size: 

Feedback: No

NaN fields: deadline on the response

Subject population: 31 students (12 males), aged 19-24 (M = 21.94. SD
= 1.46) took part in the study in exchange for a small payment (about
2 EUR for 30 minutes). All participants had normal or
corrected-to-normal vision. Participants gave informed written
consents to experimental procedure.

Response device: keyboard, mouse

Experiment setting: lab

Training: 2 blocks of 16 trials of practice sessions, no data.

Experiment goal: Order effect.

Main result: The accuracy - rating logistic regression slope was
significantly less steep in the SD condition than in the DS condition
for 32ms presentation time. The same effect was significant according
to the directional test for the 48ms presentation time.

Special instructions: Discrimination task required from participants
to decide whether a target stimulus was oriented left or right as
quick as possible and with maximal accuracy.

Experiment dates: 2013

Location of data collection: Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland

Additional information: Reaction Time data for the confidence ratings was not collected