Contributor(s): Micha³ Wierzchoñ, mwierzchon@gmail.com, Borys³aw Paulewicz, bpaulewicz@swps.edu.pl

Citation: Wierzchoñ, M., Asanowicz, D., Paulewicz, B.,
& Cleeremans, A. (2014). Subjective measures of consciousness in artificial grammar learning task. Consciousness and cognition, 21, 1141-1153.

Stimulus: Fifteen + sixty letter strings, see Manipulation.

Confidence scale: - confidence rating scale (CR) - participants were
asked to rate their confidence in classification decision with 4 point
scale (where 1 = I am guessing, 2 = I am not confident, 3 = I am quite
confident, 4 = I am very confident) after each decision on string
regularity - post decision wagering scale (PDW) - participants were
asked to wager one of four possible stakes (20, 40, 60 or 80 PLN3) on
each classification decision, expressing their certainty in this
decision. They were informed that when they bet on the correct
response, they will gain the amount on stake (and it will be added to
their account). However, if the wager is inaccurate they will lose the
stake (and it will be subtracted from their account). Participants
started the classification phase with 200 PLN on their account.
feeling of warmth scale (FOW) - in this condition participants were
informed that they should base their scale ratings on subjective
feelings related to each classification decision (thus a certainty
that bases rater on a subjective feeling than the rational explanation
that may be associated with the confidence ratings or decision
wagering). Participants rated their feelings about classification
accuracy with 4 point scale (where 1 = cold, 2 = chilly, 3 = warm, 4 =
hot) - rule awareness scale (RAS), the scale was proposed analogously
to perceptual awareness scale (PAS, see Ramsoy & Overgaard, 2004;
Sandberg & al, 2010). However, because we used an artificial grammar
learning task that measures participants' knowledge of the rules, we
proposed a scale that investigates the subjective experience
(judgements) of complex knowledge availability. Participants were
asked to indicate whether they are aware of the rule underlying their
classification decision rated rule awareness with 4 point scale (where
1 = I do not have any clue about the rule, 2 = I have a glimpse of the
rule, 3 = I think that I know what is the rule, 4 = I know the rule) -
continuous scale (Sergant - Dehaene Scale, SDS), this scale was built
analogously to the continuous scale proposed by Sergent & Dehaene
(2004). Similarly to the RAS scale described above, we changed the
scale description to adapt it to the measurement of rule
awareness. Participants were asked to indicate whether they are aware
of the rule underlying their classification decision rated their
awareness of rule on a continuous scale represented by a horizontal
bar. The bar’s extremes were labeled “I do not have any clue about the
rule” on the left and “I know the rule” on the right. Participants
were asked to move a cursor on the scale to mark their response.

Manipulations: The classical Artificial Grammar Learning (AGL)
procedure was used (Reber, 1967), in a two grammar design (Dienes &
Altmann, 1997). Training and test strings were adopted from Dienes &
Scott (2005). The design of the AGL task was identical to the one used
by Dienes & Seth (2010). In the first phase of the task, participants
were asked to memorize strings from one of two grammars (half of the
participants memorized the strings from grammar ‘A’ and the other half
memorized strings from grammar ‘B’). Fifteen letter strings were
presented three times during the acquisition phase. Afterwards,
participants were informed that the order of letters followed a
complex set of rules. In the second phase of the procedure, we asked
participants to classify sixty new strings (equal mix of ‘A’ and ‘B’
grammar strings), as regular (grammatical) or irregular
(ungrammatical). Participants were asked to base their decisions on
the rules that organized the material in the first part of the
experiment (i.e. participants who had been exposed to grammar ‘A’ in
the first phase should classify as regular the strings from grammar
‘A’, whereas participants who had been exposed to grammar ‘B’ should
classify as regular the strings from grammar ‘B’). Half of the test
strings were built according to the same set of rules that defined the
material in the acquisition phase. Thus, chance level equals
.5. Similarly to Dienes & Scott (2005) study, we used a fixed
presentation order both in the acquisition and in the test phases
(half of the participants were presented with the strings in one
order; the other half in the reverse order). The duration of string
presentation in the acquisition phase was fixed to 5 sec. In the test
phase, participants saw each string for 2.5 sec2 and then the screen
with decision options (regular vs. non regular) followed (or preceded)
by the screen with one of the subjective scales (depending on the
conditions as described below) was presented without further time
limits (so in fact participants could classify strings at their own
pace). With each decision on classification in the test phase,
participants were asked to rate their awareness of rules that
organized the material using one of five subjective measures of
consciousness (Condition variable). The initial position of the cursor
was random. We have additionally counterbalanced the response -
awareness rating order (Order variable) for all scales (i.e. decision
on classification was either followed - DS condition - or preceded -
SD condition - by the awareness rating).

Block size: single block

Feedback: No

NaN fields: deadline on the response

Subject population: 217 undergraduate students from Jagiellonian
University voluntarily participated in the study in exchange for
course credits.

Response device: keyboard, mouse

Experiment setting: lab

Training:

Experiment goal: Comparing subjective measures of consciousness in an
AGL task.

Main result: The distribution of responses was different for CR and
FOW comparing to the other scales. Participants seemed to avoid the
lowest ratings on CR and FOW scales, but used them in the case of the
PDW, RAS and SDS scales. CR logistic regression Accuracy - Rating
slope was higher than the FOW, the RAS and the SDS slopes, suggesting
higher exhaustiveness of this scale. We also observed a very small,
although still significant slope for the SDS scale that was
significantly lower than the slopes for the PDW and the FOW
scales. These results suggest a somewhat lower exhaustiveness of the
SDS scale.

Special instructions:

Experiment dates: 2010

Location of data collection: Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland

Additional information: Reaction Time data was not collected
