Contributor(s): Micha³ Wierzchoñ, mwierzchon@gmail.com, Borys³aw Paulewicz, bpaulewicz@swps.edu.pl

Citation: Wierzchon, Anzulewicz, Hobot, Paulewicz & Sackur (provisionally accepted). In search of the most sensitive measure of awareness: discrete or continuous? Consciousness and Cognition

Stimulus: Gabor patch, see Manipulations.

Confidence scale: Note that because of the research question and the
design the ratings were stored as floating point numbers in the 0-1
range. In the PAS condition four response categories were used (“no
experience”, “vague experience”, “almost clear experience”, and “clear
experience”), in the CS condition only the scale extremes were
labelled “no experience” and “clear experience”), in the C-PAS
condition four categories with PAS tag names were embedded inside a
continuous scale.

Manipulations: A visual orientation discrimination task was employed,
with Gabor patches, masked by a checkerboard matched in frequency,
serving as target stimuli. The stimuli and the mask were displayed on
a light grey background and were viewed from a distance of 60 cm. The
diameter of the stimuli subtended 3.34 degrees of visual angle. The
parameters of Gabor patches were constant (contrast = 30%, frequency =
20 cycles per screen width, standard deviation of the Gaussian
envelope = 0.1 screen width) and the patches were tilted 45 degrees to
the left or right from the vertical position. An awareness scale was
presented in the lower part of the screen in c.a. 20 cm frame, along
with a question "How clear was your experience of stimulus?" in the
upper part of the screen. Each trial began with a fixation cross,
presented at the centre of the screen for 1000 ms, and followed by a
randomly oriented Gabor patch. The stimulus duration (Difficulty
variable) was randomly intermixed across trials (32, 48, 64 and 128
ms). The target was immediately followed by the mask, which was
displayed until the participant responded to the orientation
discrimination task. In each trial, participants were asked to
identify the Gabor patch orientation as fast as possible and with
maximal accuracy. Participants responded by pressing one of two keys
(left or right arrow on a standard QWERTY computer keyboard). The
maximum time for the response was 3000 ms. After the orientation
discrimination response, the participants were asked to rate the
visibility of a target stimulus using one of the scales scale. To
facilitate response, a graphical representation of one of the three
scales of visual awareness (PAS, CS, or C-PAS, Condition variable) was
presented. Each scale was displayed in a one-row table, containing
descriptions of scale categories, and/or presenting the area in which
participants could choose their response within a continuous range
(i.e. CS and C-PAS). Participants marked their responses using a
standard computer mouse, and depending on the condition they: [1]
chose one of four possible categories, where a selected category was
highlighted (PAS), [2] chose one of four possible categories and then
decided on a specific position of a cursor within a selected PAS
category (C-PAS), and [3] specify the cursor position on a continuous
horizontal line that did not contain intermediate categories, so only
the scale extremes were described as “no experience” and “clear
experience” (CS). The main manipulation was the type of scale: in the
PAS condition four response categories were used (“no experience”,
“vague experience”, “almost clear experience”, and “clear
experience”), in the CS condition only the scale extremes were
labelled “no experience” and “clear experience”), in the C-PAS
condition four categories with PAS tag names were embedded inside
a continuous scale.

Block size: single block

Feedback: No

NaN fields: deadline on the response

Subject population: 70 Jagiellonian University students (22 males,
mean age = 22 years, SD = 2.1) took part in the experiment in exchange
for course credits. All participants reported normal or
corrected-to-normal vision and no history of neurological
disorders. The participants were randomly assigned to one of three
experimental groups performing the PAS (22 participants), the CS (18
participants) or the C-PAS (30 participants), respectively.

Response device: keyboard, mouse

Experiment setting: lab

Training: 16 practice trials, no data.

Experiment goal: Comparing the exhaustiveness of discrete, mixed and
continuous scale types.

Main result: There were no significant differences in the
metacognitive sensitivity as measured with the logistic regression
accuracy - rating slopes, however the criterion of the lowest rating
was clearly different in C-PAS as compared to CS and PAS
conditions. The frequency of lowest ratings in the CS was
significantly higher compared to both PAS and C-PAS conditions. The
frequency of the lowest PAS ratings was lower also compared to
C-PAS. We have also observed significant differences in the middle
ratings distributions between the CS and both PAS and C-PAS. In line
with lowest ratings distribution results the frequency of CS middle
ratings was lower than for other scales.

Special instructions: Identify the Gabor patch orientation as fast as
possible and with maximal accuracy.

Experiment dates: 2016 05 - 2016 08

Location of data collection: Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
