Contributor(s): Borys³aw Paulewicz, bpaulewicz@swps.edu.pl, Micha³ Wierzchoñ, mwierzchon@gmail.com, 

Citation: unpublished (results have been described in book in Polish)

Stimulus: Fifteen + sixty letter strings, see Manipulation.

Confidence scale: - confidence rating scale (CR) - participants were
asked to rate their confidence in classification decision with 4 point
scale (where 1 = I am guessing, 2 = I am not confident, 3 = I am quite
confident, 4 = I am very confident) after each decision on string
regularity 

Manipulations: The classical Artificial Grammar Learning (AGL)
procedure was used (Reber, 1967), in a two grammar design (Dienes &
Altmann, 1997). Training and test strings were adopted from Dienes &
Scott (2005). The design of the AGL task was identical to the one used
by Dienes & Seth (2010). In the first phase of the task, participants
were asked to memorize strings from one of two grammars (half of the
participants memorized the strings from grammar ‘A’ and the other half
memorized strings from grammar ‘B’). Fifteen letter strings were
presented three times during the acquisition phase. Afterwards,
participants were informed that the order of letters followed a
complex set of rules. In the second phase of the procedure, we asked
participants to classify sixty new strings (equal mix of ‘A’ and ‘B’
grammar strings), as regular (grammatical) or irregular
(ungrammatical). Participants were asked to base their decisions on
the rules that organized the material in the first part of the
experiment (i.e. participants who had been exposed to grammar ‘A’ in
the first phase should classify as regular the strings from grammar
‘A’, whereas participants who had been exposed to grammar ‘B’ should
classify as regular the strings from grammar ‘B’). Half of the test
strings were built according to the same set of rules that defined the
material in the acquisition phase. Thus, chance level equals
.5. Similarly to Dienes & Scott (2005) study, we used a fixed
presentation order both in the acquisition and in the test phases
(half of the participants were presented with the strings in one
order; the other half in the reverse order). The duration of string
presentation in the acquisition phase was fixed to 5 sec. In the test
phase, participants saw each string for 2.5 sec2 and then the screen
with decision options (regular vs. non regular) followed
by the screen with confidence scale was presented without further time
limits (so in fact participants could classify strings at their own
pace). With each decision on classification in the test phase,
participants were asked to rate their awareness of rules that
organized the material using confidence scale. Additionally, in the experimental condition, we have applied a secondary task in the first phase. The participants were instructed to speak out loud numbers ranging from 1 to 9 in random order. They were told that the numbers should be generated at a natural pace, neither too fast nor too slow (at most 2 second intervals were allowed between the consecutive numbers). The participants responses were immediately written down by the experimenter. Except for the fact that exacly 100 numbers were generated in the baseline stage and there was no fixed limit on the number of responses in the AGL stage this process was the same during both of this stages.

Block size: single block

Feedback: No

NaN fields: deadline on the response

Subject population: 53 undergraduate students from Jagiellonian
University voluntarily participated in the study in exchange for
course credits.

Response device: keyboard, mouse

Experiment setting: lab

Training:

Experiment goal: Investigate the effects of secondary task on artificial grammar learning

Main result: We observe a difference in a regression slope depending on the Condition - participants who performed a secondary task with the artificial grammar learning acquisition task has later express lower availability of acquired knowledge than control group.

Special instructions:

Experiment dates: 2012 04

Location of data collection: Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland

Additional information: Reaction Time data was not collected
