Contributor(s): Micha³ Wierzchoñ, mwierzchon@gmail.com, Borys³aw Paulewicz, bpaulewicz@swps.edu.pl

Citation: Wierzchoñ, M., Paulewicz, B., Asanowicz, D., Timmermans, B.,
& Cleeremans, A. (2014). Different subjective awareness measures
demonstrate the influence of visual identification on perceptual
awareness ratings. Consciousness and cognition, 27, 109-120.

Stimulus: Pictures from the NimStim set of facial expressions
(Tottenham et al., 2009) were used as target stimuli and an image with
a complex pattern (constructed with fragments of faces) was used as a
mask. The stimuli and the mask were presented in greyscale on a light
grey background. The size of the stimuli was 3.8 x 4.0 degrees of
visual angle. The viewing distance was around 60 cm.

Confidence scale: For the CR scale, 1 = guessing, 2 = not confident, 3
= quite confident, and 4 = very confident. The PAS participants rated
stimulus visibility (i.e. whether they have a clear experience of an
image) with 4-point scale. The descriptions were: 1 = no experience, 2
= a vague experience, 3 = an almost clear experience, and 4 = clear
experience.  For PDW, participants were asked to wager on each
decision with one of four possible stakes: 1 = 20 PLN, 2 = 40 PLN, 3 =
60 PLN, or 4 = 80 PLN. When bet on the correct response, they gained
the amount and it was added to their account. If not, they lost the
amount, which was subtracted from their account. Participants started
the task with 200 PLN on their account and were informed that the
account would be visible at the end of the phase. Finally, in the FOW
scale condition, the participants were asked to rate their awareness
based on intuitive feeling of accuracy. The scale descriptions were
1 = cold, 2 = cool, 3 = warm, and 4 = hot.

Manipulations: Each trial began with a fixation cross, presented at
the centre of the screen for 1000 ms, and followed by the target
stimulus. The target remained on the screen for a duration randomly
chosen amongst twelve possibilities ranging from 16 to 192 ms (the
Difficulty variable in the dataset where Difficulty 1 corresponds to
192 ms) in steps of 16 ms, and was immediately followed by the mask,
which was displayed for 200 ms. On each trial, participants were asked
to identify whether a target stimulus was a female or a male face as
fast as possible and with maximal accuracy. Participants responded by
pressing one of two keys (left or right ‘ctrl’ on a regular ‘‘qwerty’’
keyboard). In addition, participants were asked, either before (Order
= SD) or after their decision (Order = DS) to rate their awareness of
the target stimulus. To facilitate response, a graphical
representation of one of four subjective scales of awareness (CR, PAS,
PDW, or FOW) was presented. Each scale was displayed in a 2 x 4 table,
with numerical values (1–4) in the first row, and descriptions of
these scale points in the lower row. Participants were asked to
indicate their response through pressing one of four keys (‘1’, ‘2’,
‘3’, or ‘4’).

Block size: There were two 192 trials long blocks.

Feedback: No

NaN fields: deadline on the response

Subject population: 146 students of Jagiellonian University (77
females and 74 males) voluntarily participated in the study in
exchange for course credits. All participants had normal or
corrected-to-normal vision. Participants were randomly assigned to one
of 8 conditions (depending on applied measure of awareness and
task order, i.e. 4 scale conditions (CR, PAS, PDW, FOW) x 2 order
conditions (SD, DS)

Response device: keyboard

Experiment setting: lab

Training: There were 12 practice trials, but no data was recorder.

Experiment goal: Comparing four subjective awareness measures in the
context of a visual identification task: quantitative differences in
terms of scale use and correlation with task performance. Also, the
effect of identification task decisions on subsequent subjective
reports (decision - rating order).

Main result: The overall relationship between awareness ratings and
performance (logit regression slope) was weaker when participants
rated their awareness before providing identification responses. The
Perceptual Awareness Scale was most exhaustive (ratings distribution)
only when used after the identification task, whereas confidence
ratings were most exhaustive when used before the identification task.

Special instructions: The participants were asked to classify the
stimuli as fast as possible and with maximal accuracy.

Experiment dates: 2010

Location of data collection: Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
